# Codebook for tidyData.csv generated by run_analysis.R

##Variable 1:
*subject*: Integer variable (range 1 to 30) identifying one of 30 subjects who performed
the activity in the respective row.

##Variable 2:
*activity*: Factor variable identifying an activity performed by the subject with six possible values: 
walking, walkingupstairs, walkingdownstairs, sitting, standing, laying (sic, retained from original dataset).

##Variable 3 to 68:
As the variable names have been chosen be descriptive and self-explanatory (and to avoid tedious repetition), 
only the various name elements making up the variable names are described below.
 
The variable values in the tidy dataset are means calculated from the original data.
As the original data are normalized unitless values within the range [-1,1], the 
calculated means also are unitless values within the range [-1,1].

-The first name element is either 'time' or 'frequency' indicating a time-domain or frequency-domain variable, 
 respectively.
 
-If the last name element is X, Y or Z, the variable name refers to a measurement along the X, Y or Z axis.

-The name element StdDev refers to a standard deviation measurement.

-All other name elements are deemed to be self-explanatory. 

For further details, refer to the full description available 
at the site where the original data was obtained: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

## Steps taken to derive tidy data from raw data

-Deriving variable names from the `features.txt` file.

-Retaining only variables with 'mean()' and 'std()' in their name. 
 Variables with only 'mean' (without brackets) in their name were not considered to 
 be true means in the statistical sense and therefore discarded. 

-Reading the test variable data from (`test/X_test.txt`) and combining it with the subject data (from `test/subject_test.txt`) 
 and activity data (from `test/y_test.txt`).  

-Reading the train variable data (from `train/X_train.txt`) and combining it with the subject (from `train/subject_train.txt`) and activity data (from `train/y_train.txt`) data.

-Combining the train and test data.

-Replacing numerical activity IDs by descriptive names. 

-Expanding abbreviations in variable names ('Mag' to 'Magnitude', 'Acc' to 'Accelerometer' etc.).

-Producing the final summary dataset by taking the average of each variable for each activity and each 
 subject using the `aggregate` command.

 